# Hometown backgrounds pack for Pathbuilder 2e

Custom [Pathbuilder 2e][pathbuilder] pack containing Hometown backgrounds
designed to be compatible with the [Seven Dooms for Sandpoint][adventure-path]
adventure path. See the [Backgrounds](#backgrounds) section for details on each
background.

## Installation

1. Download the hometown-backgrounds.json file to your machine.
2. Open up [Pathbuilder 2e][pathbuilder] in a browser.
3. Select "Custom Pack" from the main menu.
4. Click on the "Import Custom Pack" button.
5. Locate and select the hometown-backgrounds.json file that you downloaded and
   click "Open."
6. Click on "Add All."
7. Click on "Finished."

## Backgrounds

The following character backgrounds are designed to be compatible with the
[Seven Dooms for Sandpoint][adventure-path] adventure path as listed in the
[Seven Dooms for Sandpoint Player's Guide][players-guide]. It should be clear
which Hometown backgrounds align with the Sandpoint backgrounds.

### Cathedral Child

You grew up in the shadow of your hometown's cathedral, perhaps literally. The
cathedral's caretaker may be your adoptive parent or religious mentor.
Regardless of your personal beliefs, the cathedral and it's community have been
a key part of your life.

You may live in one of the apartments set aside for acolytes in the cathedral
itself, or you might have family or own a small house elsewhere in town.
Whatever the case, you have spent a lot of time in the cathedral serving as a
scribe.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Wisdom or Charisma, and one is a free
ability boost.

You’re trained in the Religion skill and the Scribing Lore skill. You gain the
Battle Medicine skill feat.

### Curious Apprentice

Visitors to your hometown are often pleasantly surprised to find that it has a
wide array of shops and services. This is despite the number of disasters it has
suffered over the past several decades—fires, raids, and even tsunamis.

Growing up in a town with so many businesses, you have never lacked for
employment opportunities. Whether prompted by your parents, or of your own
volition, you took an an apprenticeship with a respected local artisan. However,
lately you have found yourself drawn to the adventuring life. It's not just the
piles of cash adventurers seem to come across, but the opportunity to discover
and study strange and occult mysteries.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or Strength, and one is a
free ability boost.

You're trained in the Occultism skill and the Poetry Lore skill. You gain the
Hefty Hauler skill feat.

### Eager Scofflaw

you've always been a bit of a troublemaker, instigating pranks and even
committing minor crimes. Growing up this has caused problems in maintaining
friendships and has strained relationships with your family. So far your quick
wits has helped you avoid serious trouble, but lately the town watch has taken
notice of you. As has one of the local criminal gangs.

While you might still have family living in town, you are estranged and for a
while lived on your own in a rented room or abandoned building in one of the
seedier parts of town using your wits to subsist. Joining a group offer
adventurers was a natural choice, a way to make money fast, albeit with
attendant dangers. Your income from adventuring has allowed you to move into
more stable accommodation and has kept the watch off your back. For now.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or Charisma, and one is a
free ability boost.

You’re trained in the Thievery skill and the Underworld Lore skill. You gain the
Bon Mot skill feat.

### Coastal Local

Your family has lived in their town for generations. Perhaps they have ties to
one of the founding families. You have either lived in the same town, or have
been a frequent visitor from your home elsewhere on the coast. You have an
abiding fondness for the region: its climate, its terrain, its culture, and its
history, which stretches back countless generations. At times you feel as if you
are a fundamental part of the land itself.

Whether you have lived in your family's town your whole life, or simply been a
frequent visitor, you have recently made your family's town your base of
operations for some adventuring activities. You might be living with one off
your relatives, or perhaps have taken up residence in one of their unused
properties.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or Wisdom, and one is a
free ability boost.

You're trained in the Society skill and the Hometown Lore skill. You gain the
Hobnobber skill feat.

### Militia Member

Your town has a fairly small complement of town guards, which is adequate to
deal with the usual minor disturbances amounting to the occasional brawl, or
boundary dispute, or petty thievery. However, over the past few decades the town
has seen what locals feel is more than its fair share of graver threats in the
form of natural disasters, murders, and raids.

Over the years, the town has come to rely on a militia to support the guards.
You grew up on the waterfront, perhaps the child of a fisher, or sailor, or
shipwright. However, instead of following in your parent's footsteps, you chose
to join the militia. Your duties included patrolling, reporting suspicious
activities, and helping deal with minor events. Your connections to the
waterfront made you a valued member of the militia, though you have drawn the
enmity of one of the local criminal gangs.

You might have your own modest home, or you might still live with your family.
However, you are not averse to camping out under the stars or spending a night
on a watch as duty requires.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or Wisdom, and one is a free
ability boost.

You're trained in the Athletics skill and the Sailing Lore skill. You gain the
Lie to Me skill feat.

### Newcomer

You are a recent arrival in town, though "recent" depends on your perspective.
To most locals you are little more than a tourist, though you feel you've been
here more long enough to put down roots. You have even found regular work for
one of the founding families, though you are beginning to wonder if that may be
more of a hindrance in earning the trust of the other townsfolk than a help. It
seems your benefactors are not well-loved by the locals.

You came to the town for reasons of your own, perhaps because of its lifestyle
or because of an interest in its history, either recent or ancient. You do not
own your own home and might be living on modest accommodation provided by your
employer, or perhaps you are relying on one of your few friends in town for a
place to stay.

You have been spending some time in libraries trying to learn a little more
about the region and whatever it was that drew you here. If that was not enough
you have also taken to adventuring as a way to make some extra coin and perhaps
distance yourself from your employers.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or Intelligence, and one
is a free ability boost.

You're trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Library Lore skill. You gain the
Additional Lore skill feat—the lore you choose represents the interest and focus
of study that drew you to the region.

### Student of Ancient History

It seems difficult to believe that just two decades ago, hardly anyone knew of
the ancient history of your hometown and its environs. Very few locals knew
anything about the gargantuan, rune-carved ruins dotting the coast, and even
their existence was almost unknown outside the region. Events over the past
couple of decades have changed all that, with an almost feverish interest from
scholars from near and far in the ancient empire that once flourished in this
region.

As a local growing up in the shadow of a ruined tower now known to be a relic of
this lost empire, you have long been fascinated by this history. You hope one
day to discover some new ruin that has not been studied, or even just visit some
of the more famous sites that you have so far only read about in books, or heard
about from one of the few locals who specialize in these studies. However, a lot
of your research has been clandestine as the lost empire has a sinister
reputation and many locals feel that these things are best left alone. You have
taken to adventuring in the hope that you can make some discoveries that will
impress the local scholars, or at least sate your own curiosity.

You live independently in a modest home, likely cluttered with books and
research materials. Your parents might have helped you secure this accommodation
so you could continue your research in piece, or perhaps your studies were a
bone of contention that led you to seek your own lodgings.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or Intelligence, and one is
a free ability boost.

You're trained in the Arcana skill and the Academia Lore skill. You gain the
Multilingual skill feat, but one of the languages you gain from this feat must
belong to the ancient empire that once occupied this region.

### Mob-Connected

In recent decades, one of the most prominent founding families of your home town
has faced significant setbacks, stemming largely from rumors of illicit dealings
with certain local criminals linked to a certain club. Despite efforts to
restore their reputation and finances following the reconstruction of their
mansion after a past attack, challenges persist. With historical tensions
resurfacing due to an impending regional political realignment, the family's
past actions, notably those of a certain individual, continue to haunt them.

Your association with this family, whether as a distant relative or a recipient
of their support, intertwines you with their affairs. Your role has often
involved monitoring rumors and opportunities beneficial to the family,
leveraging your talent for diplomacy. Despite your contributions, full
acceptance into their inner circle remains elusive, complicating your
relationships with the larger community.

Recent changes in your living arrangements signal a shift, prompting your
involvement with a new adventuring group. This presents an opportunity to pursue
personal gain, distance yourself from the family's influence, or potentially
earn their favor through newfound achievements.

Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Charisma or Dexterity, and one is a
free ability boost.

You're trained in the Intimidation skill and the Mercantile Lore skill. You gain
the Charming Liar skill feat.

[pathbuilder]:    https://pathbuilder2e.com/
[players-guide]:  https://paizo.com/community/blog/v5748dyo6siiv&page=1?Introducing-the-Seven-Dooms-for-Sandpoint
[adventure-path]: https://paizo.com/store/pathfinder/adventures/adventurepath/sevendoomsforsandpoint
[ogl]:            https://paizo.com/pathfinder/compatibility/ogl
